The Project Gutenberg eBook of Under Arctic Ice
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Under Arctic Ice


Author: Harry Bates

Release date: July 21, 2009 [eBook #29475]

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
        Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK UNDER ARCTIC ICE ***



Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from Astounding Stories January 1933.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the
    U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.

    The Table of Contents is not part of the original magazine.



                 A Sequel to "Seed of the Arctic Ice"


                           Under Arctic Ice

                        _A Complete Novelette_


                            By H.G. Winter

       *       *       *       *       *




             Contents


    I    An Empty Room
   II    The Crash
  III    The Fate of the Peary
   IV    "No Chance Left"
    V    Last Assault
   VI    In a Biscuit Can
  VII    The Awakening
 VIII    The Duel

       *       *       *       *       *




[Sidenote: Ken Torrance races Poleward to the aid of the submarine
_Peary_, trapped in an icy limbo of avenging sealmen.]

CHAPTER I

_An Empty Room_


The house where the long trail started was one of gray walls, gray
rooms and gray corridors, with carpets that muffled the feet which at
intervals passed along them. It was a house of silence, brooding
within the high fence that shut it and the grounds from a landscape
torpid under the hot sun of summer, and across which occasionally
drifted the lonely, mournful whistle of a train on a nearby railroad.
Inside the house there was always a hush, a heavy quiet--restful to
the brain.

But now a voice was raised, young, angry, impatient, in one of the
gray-walled rooms.

"Yes, I rang for you. I want my bags packed. I'm leaving this
minute!"

The face of the man who had entered showed surprise.

"Leaving, Mr. Torrance? Why?"

"Read this!"

[Illustration: _She was fastened in the mud of the gloomy sea-floor._]

As if, knowing and therefore dreading what he would see, the attendant
took the newspaper held outstretched to him and followed the pointing
finger to a featured column. He scanned it:

                 Deadline Passed for Missing Submarine

     Point Barrow, Aug. 17 (AP): Planes sent out to search for
     the missing polar submarine _Peary_ have returned without
     clue to the mystery of is disappearance. The close search
     that has been conducted through the last two weeks,
     involving great risks to the pilots, has been fruitless, and
     authorities now hold out small hope for Captain Sallorsen,
     his crew and the several scientists who accompanied the
     daring expedition.

     If the _Peary_, as is generally thought, is trapped beneath
     the ice floes or embedded in the deep silt of the polar
     sea-floor, her margin of safety has passed the deadline, it
     was pointed out to-day by her designers. Through special
     rectifiers aboard, her store of air can be kept capable of
     sustaining life for a theoretical period of thirty-one days.
     And exactly thirty-one days have now elapsed since last the
     _Peary's_ radio was heard from a position 72° 47' N, 162°
     22' W, some twelve hundred miles from the North Pole itself.

     In official circles, hope was practically abandoned for the
     missing submarine, though attempts will continue to be made
     to locate her....

"I'm sorry, Mr. Torrance," said the attendant nervously. "This paper
should--"

"Should never have reached me, eh? Through some slip of the people who
censor my reading matter here, I read what I wasn't supposed
to--that's what you mean?"

"It was thought better, Mr. Torrance, by the doctors, and--"

"Good God! Thought better! Through their sagacity, these doctors have
probably condemned the men on this submarine to death! I haven't heard
a word about the expedition; didn't even know the _Peary_ was up
there, much less missing!"

"Well, Mr. Torrance," the attendant stammered, more and more
unsettled, "the doctors thought that--that any news about it
would--well, upset you."

The young man laughed bitterly;

"Bring on my old 'trouble,' I suppose. The doctors have been
considerate, but I won't concern them any more. I'm through. I'm
leaving for the north--right now. There's a bare chance I might still
be in time."

"I'm sorry, Mr. Torrance, but you can't."

"Can't?"

The attendant had retreated to the door. His eyes were nervous, his
face pale.

"It's orders, Mr. Torrance. You've been under observation treatment,
and the doctors left strict orders that you must stay."

The young man throbbed with dangerous anger. His hands clenched and
unclenched. He burst out, in a last attempt at reason:

"But don't you see, I've _got_ to get to the _Peary_! It's the last
hope for those men! The position she was last heard from is right
where I--"

"You can't leave, Mr. Torrance! I'm sorry, but I'll have to call a
guard!"

For a minute their eyes held. With an effort, the young man said more
calmly:

"I see. I see. I'm a prisoner. All right, leave me."

The attendant was more than willing. The young man heard the door's
lock click. And then he lowered his head and pressed his hands hard
into his face.

But a second later he was looking up again, at the single wide window
which gave out on the lonely landscape over which sometimes came
drifting the distant cry of a train's whistle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two months before, Kenneth Torrance had returned to the whaling
submarine _Narwhal_, of which he was first torpooner, with a confused
story of men who were half-seals that lived in mounds under the Arctic
ice,[1] who had captured him and--he found--had also captured the
second torpooner, Chanley Beddoes. In breaking free from their
mound-prison, Beddoes had killed one of the sealmen and had been
himself slain minutes later by a killer whale, one of the fierce
scavengers of the sea which the sealmen trapped for food even as the
_Narwhal_ sought them for oil. Ken Torrance alone came back.

[Footnote 1: See the February, 1932, issue of Astounding Stories.]

Over their doubts, he had stuck to his story. Later, he had repeated
it to officials of the Alaska Whaling Company, who worked the
submarine and several surface ships. They in return had sent him to a
private sanitarium in the State of Washington for a rest which they
hoped would "iron out the kink" in his brain.

Here Ken had been for six weeks, while the exploring submarine _Peary_
nosed her way northward toward the Pole. Here he had been, all
unknowing, while the world hummed with reports of the _Peary's_
disappearance in that far-off ever-shrouded sea of mystery.

She might, Ken knew, have struck a shaft of underwater ice, sending
her to the bottom; some of her machinery might have cracked up,
paralyzing her; the ice-fields under which she cruised might have
shifted suddenly, crushing her ribs--of these perils the world knew as
well as he. But the submarine's crew was prepared for them; the
_Peary_ was equipped with a circular saw for cutting up through the
ice from beneath, and she carried sea-suits which would allow her men,
if she were wrecked on the bottom, to leave her and get up on the ice
and wait for the first searching plane.

Why, then, had not the planes which scoured the region found the
survivors?

That was the mystery--but not to Ken Torrance. There was another
peril, of which he alone knew. Not far from where the _Peary's_ last
radio report had come, a group of hollowed-out mounds lay on the
sea-floor, swarming with brown-skinned, quick-swimming creatures.
Sealmen, they were--men who, like the seals, had gone back to the sea.
Months ago, Second Torpooner Chanley Beddoes had killed one of them.
They were intelligent; they could remember; they were capable of hate
and fear; they would be desirous of leveling the debt!

There, Ken felt sure, lay the reason for the _Peary's_ baffling
silence, for the non-appearance of her men.

There might still be time. No one of course would listen to him and
believe, so he would have to go in search of the _Peary_ and her crew
himself.

Standing by the window, Kenneth Torrance quickly planned the several
steps which would take him to the Arctic and its silent ice-coated
sea.

And when, some two hours later, after a short warning rap on the door,
the individual who served as Mr. Torrance's attendant entered his
room, he was confronted, not by the gentleman whose dinner he carried,
but by an empty room, a stripped bed, an open window, and a rope of
sheets dangling from it toward the ground two stories beneath.

That was at seven o'clock in the evening.




CHAPTER II

_The Crash_


At a few minutes before eight o'clock, Air Mail Pilot Steve Chapman
was enjoying a quiet cigarette while waiting for the mechanics to warm
up the five hundred horses of his mail plane satisfactorily. Halfway
through, he heard, from behind, a quick patter of feet, and, turning,
he observed a figure clad in flannel trousers and sweater. The
cigarette dropped right out of his mouth as he cried:

"Ken! Ken Torrance!"

"Thank God you're here!" said Kenneth Torrance. "I gambled on it.
Steve, I've got to borrow your own personal plane."

"What?" gasped Steve Chapman. "What--what--?"

"Listen, Steve. I haven't been with the whaling company lately; been
resting, down here--secluded. Didn't know that submarine, the _Peary_,
was missing. I just learned. And I know damned well what's happened to
it. I've got to get to it, quick is I can, and I've got to have a
plane."

Steve Chapman said rather faintly:

"But--where was the _Peary_ when they last heard from her?"

"Some twelve hundred miles from the Pole."

"And you want to get there in a plane? From here?"

"Must!"

"Boy, you stand about one chance in twenty!"

"Have to take it. Time's precious, Steve. I've got to stop in at the
Alaska Whaling Company's outpost at Point Christensen, then right on
up. I can't even begin unless I have a plane. You've got to help me on
my one chance of bringing the _Peary's_ men out alive! You'll probably
never see the plane again, Steve, but--"

"To hell with the plane, if you come through with yourself and those
men," said the pilot. "All right, kid, I don't get it all, but I'm
playing with you. You're taking my own ship."

He led Ken to a hangar wherein stood a trim five-passenger amphibian;
and very soon that amphibian was roaring out her deep-throated song of
power on the line, itching for the air, and Steve Chapman was shouting
a few last words up to the muffled figure in the enclosed control
cockpit.

"Fuel'll last around forty hours," he finished. "You'll find two
hundred per, easy, and twenty-five hours should take you clear to
Point Christensen. I put gun and maps in the right pocket; food in
that flap behind you. Go to it, Ken!"

Ken Torrance gripped the hand outstretched to his and held it tight.
He could say nothing, could only nod--this was a real friend. He gave
the ship the gun.

Her mighty Diesel bellowed, lashed the air down and under; the
amphibian spun her retractable wheels over the straight hard ground
until they lifted lightly and tilted upward in a slow climb for
altitude. With fiery streams from the exhaust lashing her flanks, she
faded into the darkness to the north.

"Well," murmured Steve Chapman, "I've got her instalments left,
anyway!" And he grinned and turned to the mail.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night passed slowly by; and the next day; and all through night
and day the steady roar of beating cylinders hung in Kenneth
Torrance's ears. At last came Point Christensen and a descent; sleep
and then quick, decisive action; and again the amphibian rose, heavily
loaded now, and droned on toward the ice and the cold bleak skies of
the far north. On, ever on, until Point Barrow, Alaska's northernmost
spur, was left behind to the east, and the world was one of drifting
ice on gray water. Muscles cramped, mind dulled by the everlasting
roar, head aching and weary, Ken held the amphibian to her steady
course, until a sudden wind shook her momentarily from it.

A rising wind. The skies were ugly. And then he remembered that the
men at Point Christensen had warned him of a storm that was brewing.
They'd told him that he was heading into disaster; and their
surprised, rather fearful faces appeared before him again, as he had
seen them just before taking off, after he had told them where he was
going.

Of course they'd thought him crazy. He had brought the amphibian down
in the little harbor off the whaling company's base, gone ashore and
greeted his old friends. There was only a handful of men stationed
there; the _Narwhal_ was being overhauled in a shipyard at San
Francisco, and it wasn't the season for surface whalers. They knew
that he, Ken, had been put in a sanitarium; all of them had heard his
wild story about sealmen. But he concocted a plausible yarn to account
for his arrival, and they had fed him and given him a berth in the
bunkhouse for the night.

For the night! Ken Torrance grinned as he recalled the scene. In the
middle of the night he had risen, quickly awakened four of the
sleeping men, and with his gun forced them to take a torpoon from the
outpost's storehouse and put it inside the amphibian's passenger
compartment.

It was robbery, and of course they'd thought him insane, but they
didn't dare cross him. He had told them cheerfully he was going after
the _Peary_, and that if they wanted the torpoon back they were to
direct the searching planes to keep their eyes on the place where the
submarine was last heard from....

       *       *       *       *       *

Ken came back to the present abruptly as the plane lurched. The wind
was getting nasty. At least he did not have much farther to go; an
hour's flying time would take him to his goal, where he must descend
into the water to continue his search. His search! Had it been, he
wondered, a useless one from the start? Had the submarine's crew been
killed before he'd even read of her disappearance? If the sealmen got
them, would they destroy them immediately?

"I doubt it," Ken muttered to himself. "They'd be kept prisoners in
one of those mounds, like I was. That is, if they haven't killed any
of the creatures. It hangs on that!"

An hour's time, he had reckoned; but it was more than an hour. For
soon the world was blotted out by a howling dervish of wind and driven
snow that time and time again snatched the amphibian from Ken's
control and hurled it high, or threw it down like a toy toward the
inferno of sea and ice he knew lay beneath. He fought for altitude,
for direction, pitched from side to side, tumbled forward and back,
gaining a few hundred feet only to feel them plucked breathtakingly
out from under him as the screaming wind played with him.

Now and again he snatched a glance at the torpoon behind. The
gleaming, twelve-foot, cigar-shaped craft, with its directional
rudders, propeller, vision-plate and nitro-shell gun lay safely
secured in the passenger compartment, a familiar and reassuring sight
to Ken, who, as first torpooner of the _Narwhal_, had worked one for
years in the chase for killer whales. Soon, it seemed, he would have
to depend on it for his life.

For all the Diesel's power, it was not enough to cope with the dead
weight of ice which was forming over the plane's wings and fuselage.
He could not keep the altimeter up. However he fought, Ken saw that
finger drop down, down--up a trifle, quivering as the racked plane
quivered--and then down and down some more.

He saw that the plane was doomed. He would have to abandon it--in the
torpoon--if he could.

He was some thirty miles from his objective. The sea beneath would be
half hidden under ragged, drifting floes. In fair weather he could
have chosen a landing space of clear water, but now he could not
choose. The altitude dial said that the water was three hundred feet
beneath, and rapidly rising nearer.

A margin of seconds in which to prepare! Ken locked the controls and
scrambled back into the passenger compartment. Steadying himself on
the bucking floor, he opened the torpoon's entrance port and slid in;
quickly he locked the port and strapped the inner body harness around
him; and then he waited.

Now it was all chance. If the plane crashed into clear water, he was
safe; but if she hit ice.... He put that thought from him.

The locked controls held the amphibian for perhaps thirty seconds.
Then with a scream the storm-giant took her. A mad up-current of wind
hurled her high, whirled her dizzily, toyed with her--and then she
spun and dove. Down, down, down; down with a speed so wild Ken grew
faint; down through the core of a maelstrom of snow till she crashed.

Kenneth Torrance knew a sudden shaking impact; for an instant there
was uncertainty; and then came all-pervading quiet....




CHAPTER III.

_The Fate of the Peary_


Quiet, and utter, liquid darkness.

Liquid! Around him, Ken heard a gurgling, at first loud and close,
then subsiding to a low whispering of currents. The amphibian had hit
water.

Gone in an instant was the shriek and fury of the storm and in its
place the calm, slow-heaving silence of underwater. The plane was
shattered in a dozen places, but the torpoon had easily stood it.

Ken turned to action. He switched on the torpoon's dashboard lights
and twin bow-beams, and saw that the shell was wedged in the fuselage.
The plane was apparently entirely under the surface, and her interior
filled with water.

Holding the propeller in neutral, he revved up the powerful electric
motor. Then he bit the propeller in, slowly. The torpoon nudged back
for inches. Then, throwing the gear into forward, Ken gave her full
speed. The torpoon leaped ahead, crunched through the weakened corner
ahead and was free.

It was a world of drab tones that she came into. Down below was
impenetrable blackness, shading softly overhead into blue-gray which
was mottled by lighter areas from breaks in the floes above. All was
calm. There was no sign of life save for an occasional vague shadow
that, melting swiftly away, might have been a fish or seaweed. Placid
always, would be this shrouded sea of mystery, no matter what furious
tempest raged above over the flat leagues of ice and water.

But the seeming peacefulness was but a mask for danger. Kenneth
Torrance's face was set in sober lines as he sped the slim torpoon
northward, her bow lights shafting long white fingers before her. For
now there was only one path--and that lay ahead. He could not turn
back. Storm and water had destroyed the plane that could take him back
to land. He could not possibly reach any outpost of civilization in
the torpoon, for her cruising radius was only twenty hours. He had
planned to land the amphibian on the ice above the spot where the
_Peary_ had disappeared, then find a break in the ice and slide down
below in the torpoon on his quest--to return to the plane if it proved
fruitless. But now there was no retreat. It was succeed, or die.

And with that realization a more dreadful thought flashed into his
mind. All those men, of the whaling company and the sanitarium,
thought him a little crazy. And, since lunatics are always convinced
of the reality of their visions, what if the sealmen--his adventure
amidst them--had been but a dream, a nightmare, an hallucination? What
if he were in truth crazy? The fear grew rapidly. What if he were?
God! He, hunting for the _Peary_, when all those planes and men had
failed! He, expecting to achieve what those searchers, with far
greater resources, had not been able to! Did not that give evidence
that his mind was twisted? Creatures, half-seal, half-men, living
under the ice--it certainly seemed a lunatic's obsession.

Then something within him rose and fought back.

"No!" he cried aloud. "I'll go bugs if I think like that! Those
sealmen were real--and I know where they are. I'm going on!"

And, an hour later, the dashboard's shaded dials told him he was on
the exact spot where the _Peary_ had last reported....

       *       *       *       *       *

Here was the real Arctic, the real polar sea. No sun, no breath of the
world above could reach it through its eternal mask of solid ice. As
one of the few unfamiliar aspects of the earth, it was as far removed
from the imagination of man as if it were part of a far planet hung
spinning millions of miles out in space. Men could reach it in shells
of metal, but it was not meant for him, and was always hostile. A
dozen times a daring one could cross safely its cold lonely reaches,
but the thirteenth time it would snare and destroy him for the
unwanted trespasser he was.

It was here that the _Peary_ had stepped off into mystery. At this
point her hull had throbbed with air, movement, life; at this point
all had been well. And then, minutes or hours later, close to here,
the sea devil had sprung.

What had happened? What had trapped her? What, even more baffling, had
kept her men with their manifold safety devices from even reaching and
climbing up on the ice above to signal the searching planes?

Ken Torrance, oppressively alone in the hovering torpoon, gazed
through its vision-plate of fused quartz around him. Gray sea,
filtering to black beneath; distant eerie shadows, probably meaning
nothing, but possibly all important; ceiling of thick ice above, rough
and in places broken by a sharp down-thrusting spur--these were his
surroundings. These were what he must hunt through, until he came upon
the crumpled remnant of a submarine, or the murky, rounded hillocks
which gave habitation to the creatures he suspected of capturing that
submarine's crew.

       *       *       *       *       *

He began the search systematically. He angled the torpoon down to a
position halfway between sea-floor and ice-ceiling, then swung her in
an ever-widening circle. Soon his orbit had a diameter of a half-mile;
then a mile; then two.

The torpoon slipped through the water at full speed, her light-beams
like restless antennae, now stabbing to the right to dissolve a
formless shadow, now to the left to throw into blinding white relief a
school of half-transparent fish which scurried with frantic wrigglings
of tails from the glare, now slanting up to bathe the cold glassy face
of an inverted ice-hill, now down to dig two white holes in the deeper
gloom.

Ken continued this routine for hours. Steadily and low the electric
motor droned in the ears of the watchful pilot, and the stubby
propeller's blades flashed round in a blur of speed between the
slightly slanted rudders. Somewhere, miles away, a splintered
amphibian plane was slipping down to her last landing, and above,
perhaps, the white hell of storm which had brought her low still
bowled over the trackless wastes; but here were only shadows and
shifting gloom, straining the alert eyes to soreness and tensing the
watcher's brain with alarms that, one after another, were only false.

Until at last he found her.

Immediately he shut off all his lights. He no longer needed them. Far
in the distance, and below, wavered a faint yellow glow. It was no
fish; it could mean only one thing--the lights of a submarine.

And lights meant life! There would be none burning in a deserted
submarine. His heart beat fast and his tight, sober lips widened in a
quick grin. He had found the _Peary_! And found her with some life
still aboard her! He was in time!

So Ken rejoiced while he slid the torpoon down to a level just a few
feet above the silty sea bottom, reducing her to quarter-speed. There
was an urge inside him to switch on his bow-beams, reach them out
toward the submarine's hull to tell all within that help was at last
at hand; he wanted to send the torpoon ahead at full speed. But
caution restrained him to a more deliberate course. He was in the
realm of the sealmen, and he did not wish to attract the attention of
any. So he advanced like a furtive shadow slinking along the dark
sea-bottom, deep in the covering gloom.

Nearer and nearer, while the distant blur of yellow light grew. Nearer
and nearer to the long-trapped men, while the consciousness that he
had succeeded intoxicated him. He alone had found them! Sealmen or no
sealmen, he had found the _Peary_! And found her with lights lit and
life inside! Nearer and nearer....

And then suddenly Ken halted the torpoon and stared with wide, alarmed
eyes. For the submarine was now plainly visible in detail--and he saw
her real plight and with it knew the answer to the mystery of her long
silence and the non-appearance of her men on the ice field above.

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Peary_ was a spectacle of fantastic beauty. It was as if a huge,
rounded piece of amber, mellow, golden, lay in the murk of the
sea-floor. Not steel, hard and grim, but of transparent, shimmering
stuff she was built, all coated a soft yellow by her lights, clearly
visible inside. Ken had known something of her radical construction;
knew that a substance called quarsteel, similar to glass and yet fully
as tough as steel, had been used for her hull, making her a perfect
vehicle for undersea exploration. Her bow was capped with steel, and
her stern, propellers, diving rudders; her port-locks, for the
releasing of torpoons, were also of steel, as were the struts that
braced her throughout--but the rest was quarsteel, glowing and golden
as the heart of amber.

Beautiful with a wild yet scientific beauty was the _Peary_, but she
was not free. She was trapped. She was fastened to the mud of the
gloomy sea-floor.

Ropes held her down; and Ken Torrance knew those ropes of old. They
were tough and strong, woven of many strands of seaweed, and twenty or
thirty of them striped the _Peary's_ two hundred feet of hull.
Unevenly spaced, stretched clear over the ship from one side to the
other, they were caught around her up-jutting conning tower, fastened
through her rudders, and holding tight in a score of places. They held
the submarine down despite all the buoyancy of her emptied tanks and
the power of her twin propellers.

And the sealmen swam around her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Restless dark shadows against the golden hull, they wavered and darted
and poised, totally unafraid. Another in Kenneth Torrance's place
would have put them down as some strange school of large seals,
inordinately curious but nothing more; but the torpooner knew them as
men--men remodeled into the shape of seals; men who, ages ago, had
forsaken the land for the old home of all life, the sea; who, through
the years, had gradually changed in appearance as their flesh had
become coated with layers of cold-resisting blubber; whose movements
had become adapted to the water; whose legs and arms had evolved into
flippers; but whose heads still harbored the now faint spark of
intelligence that marked them definitely as men.

Emotions similar to man's they had, though dulled; friendliness,
curiosity, anger, hate, and--Ken knew and feared--even a capacity for
vengeance. Vengeance! An eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth--the old
law peculiar to man! Chanley Beddoes had slain one of them; if only
the _Peary's_ crew had not killed more! If only that, there might be
hope!

First he must get inside the submarine. Warily, like a stalking cat,
Ken Torrance inched the torpoon toward the great shining ship. At
least he was in time. Within her he could see figures, most of them
stretched out on the decks of her different compartments, but one of
whom occasionally moved--slowly. He understood that. For weeks now the
_Peary_ had lain captive, and her air had passed beyond the aid of
rectifiers. Tortured, those survivors inside were, constantly
struggling for life, with vitality ever sinking lower. Some might
already be dead. But at least he could try to save the rest.

He approached her from one side of the rear, for in the rear
compartment were her two torpoon port-locks. The one on his side was
empty, its outer door open. The torpoon it had held had been sent out,
probably for help, and had not returned. It provided a means of
entrance for him.

At perhaps a hundred feet from the port-lock, Ken halted again. His
slim craft was almost indistinguishable in the murk: he felt
reasonably safe from discovery. For minutes he watched the swimming
sealmen, waiting for the best chance to dart in.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was then, while studying the full length of the submarine more
closely, that he saw that one compartment of her four was filled with
water. Her steel-caped bow had been stove in. That, he conjectured,
had been the original accident which had brought her down. It was not
a fatal accident in itself, for there were three other compartments,
all separated by watertight bulkheads, and the flooded one could be
repaired by men in sea-suits--but then the sealmen had come and roped
her down where she lay. Some of the creatures, he saw, were actually
at that time inside the bow compartment, swimming around curiously
amidst the clustered pipes, wheels and levers. It was a weird sight,
and one that held his eyes fascinated.

But suddenly, through his absorption, danger prickled the short hairs
of his neck. A lithe, sinuous shadow close ahead was wavering, and
large, placid brown eyes were staring at him. A sealman! He was
discovered! And instinctively, immediately, Ken Torrence brought the
torpoon's accelerator down flat.

The shell jumped ahead with whirling propeller. The creature that had
seen him doubled around and sped in retreat. In brief snatches, as the
torpoon streaked across the hundred-foot gap to the empty port-lock,
Ken glimpsed his discoverer gathering a group of its fellows, and saw
brown-skinned bodies swarm after him with nooses of seaweed-rope--and
then the great transparent side wall of the _Peary_ was before him,
and the port-locks dark opening. Ken threw his motor into reverse,
slid the torpoon slightly to one side, and there was a jerk, a jar,
and a sensation of something moving behind.

He turned to see the port-lock's outer door closing, activated by
controls inside the submarine--and just in time to shut out the first
of his pursuers. Then the port-lock's pumps were draining the water
from the chamber, and the inner door clicked and opened.

Kenneth Torrance climbed stiffly from the torpoon to enter the
interior of the long-lost and besieged exploring submarine _Peary._




CHAPTER IV

"_No Chance Left_"


His entrance was an unpleasant experience. He had forgotten the
condition of the air inside the submarine, and what its effect on him,
coming straight from comparatively good and fresh air, would be, until
he was seized by a sudden choking grip around his throat. He reeled
and gasped, and was for a minute nauseated. Lights flashed around him,
and teetering backward he leaned weakly, against some metal object
until gradually his head cleared; but his lungs remained tortured, and
his breathing a thing of quick, agonised gulps.

Then came sounds. Figures appeared before him.

"From where--" "Who are you?"

"What--what--what--" "How did you?"

The half-coherent questions were couched in whispers. The men around
him were blear-eyed and haggard-faced, their skins dry and bluish, and
not a one was clad in more than undershirt and trousers. Alive and
breathing, they were--but breathing grotesquely, horribly. They made
awful noises at it; they panted, in quick, shallow sucks. Some lay on
the deck at his feet, outstretched without energy enough to attempt to
rise.

Beautiful and slumber-like the submarine had appeared from outside,
but inside that effect was lost. There were the usual appurtenances: a
maze of pipes, wheels, machinery, all silent now, and cold; here were
the two port-locks for torpoons; the emergency steering controls; the
small staterooms of the _Peary's_ officers. Looking forward, still
striving for complete clear-headedness and normality, Ken could see
the two intact forward compartments, silent and apparently lifeless,
with dim lamps burning. They ended with the watertight bulkhead which
stood between them and the flooded bow compartment.

Ken at last found words, but even his short query cost a sickening
effort.

"Where's--the commander?" he asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

A man turned from where he had been leaning against a nearby wheel
control. He was stripped to the waist. His tall body was stooped, and
the skin of his ruggedly cut face drawn and parchment-like. His face
had once been dignified and authoritative, but now it was that of a
man who nears death after a long, bitter fight for life. The smile
which he gave to Ken was painful--a mockery.

"I am," he said faintly. "Sallorsen. Just wait, please. A minute. I
worked port-lock. Breath's gone...."

He sucked shallowly for air and let his smile go. And standing there,
beside him, gazing at the worn frame, Ken felt strength come back. He
had just entered; this man and the others had been here for weeks!

"I'm Sallorsen," the captain went on at last. All his words were
clipped off, to cost minimum effort. "Glad you got through. Afraid
you're come to prison, though."

"No!" Ken said emphatically. He spoke to the captain, but what he said
was also for all the others grouped around him. "No, Captain! I'm
Kenneth Torrance. Once torpooner with Alaska Whaling Company. They
thought me crazy--crazy--'cause I told about sealmen. Put me in
sanitarium. I knew they had you--when--heard you were missing." He
pointed at the brown-skinned creatures that clustered close around the
submarine outside her transparent walls. "I got free and came. Just in
time."

"In time? For what?"

Another voice gasped out the question. Ken turned to a
broad-shouldered man with a ragged growth of beard that had been a
trim Van Dyke; and before the torpooner could answer, Sallorsen said:

"Dr. Lawson. One of our scientists. In time for what?"

"To get you and the submarine free," said Ken.

"How?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ken paused before replying. He gazed around--out the side walls of
glistening quarsteel into the sea gloom, into the thick of the smooth,
lithe, brown-skinned shapes that now and again poised pressing against
the submarine, peering in with their liquid seal's eyes. Dimly he
could see the taut seaweed ropes stretching down from the top of the
_Peary_ to the sea-bottom. It looked hopeless, and to these men inside
it was hopeless. He knew he must speak in confident, assured tones to
drive away the uncaring lethargy holding them all, and he framed
definite, concise words with which to do it.

"These creatures have caught you," he began, "and you think they want
to kill you. But look at them. They seem to be seals. They're not.
They're men! Not men like us--half-men--sealmen, rather--changed into
present form by ages of living in the water. I know. I was captured by
them once. They're not senseless brutes; they have a streak of man's
intelligence. We must communicate with that intelligence. Must reason
with them. I did once. I can do it again.

"They're not really hostile. They're naturally peaceful; friendly. But
my friend--dead now--killed one of them. Naturally they now think all
creatures like us enemies. That's why they trapped your sub.

"They think you're enemies; think you want to kill them. But I'll tell
them--through pictures, as I did once before--that you mean them no
harm. I'll tell them you're dying and must have air--just as they
must. I'll tell them to release submarine and we'll go away and not
disturb them again. Above all I must get across that you wish them no
harm. They'll listen to what my pictures will say--and let us
go--'cause at heart they're friendly!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He paused--and with a ghastly, twisted smile, Captain Sallorsen
whispered:

"The hell you say!"

His sardonic comment brought a sudden chill to Kenneth Torrance. He
feared one thing that would render his whole value useless. He asked
quickly:

"What have you done?"

"Those seals," Sallorsen's labored voice continued "--they've killed
eight of us. Now they're killing all."

"But have you killed any of them?" Breathless, Ken waited for the
answer be feared.

"Yes. Two."

The men were all staring at Ken, so he had to hide the awful dejection
which clamped his heart. He only said:

"That's what I feared. It changes everything. No use trying to reason
with them now." He fell silent. "Well," he said at last, trying to
appear more cheerful, "tell me what happened. Maybe there's something
you've overlooked."

"Yes," Sallorsen whispered. He started to come forward to the
torpooner, but stumbled and would have fallen had not Ken caught him
in time. He put one of the captain's arms around his shoulder, and one
of his own around the man's waist.

"Thanks," Sallorsen said wryly. "Walk forward. Show you what
happened."

       *       *       *       *       *

There were men in the second compartment, and they still fought to
live. From the narrow seamen's berths that lined the walls came the
sound of breathing even more torturous than that of the men in the
rear. In the single bulb's dim light Ken could see their shapes
stretched motionlessly out, panting and panting. Occasionally hands
reached up to claw at straining necks, as if to try and rid throats of
strangling grasps. Two figures had won free from the long struggle.
They lay silent and still, the outline of their dead bodies showing
through the sheets pulled over them.

Slowly Sallorsen led Ken through this compartment and into the next,
which was bare of men. Here were the ship's main controls--her helm,
her central multitude of dials, levers and wheels, her televisiscreen
and old-fashioned emergency periscope. A metal labyrinth it was, all
long silent and inactive. Again the weird contrast struck Ken, for
outside he could still see the scene of vigorous, curious life that
the sealmen constituted. Close they came to the submarine's sheer
walls of quarsteel, peering in stolidly, then flashing away with an
effortless thrust of flippers, sometimes for air from some break in
the surface ice.

Like men, the sealmen needed air to live, and got it fresh and clean
from the world above. Inside, real men were gasping, fighting,
hopelessly, yielding slowly to the invisible death that lay in the
poisonous stuff they had to breathe....

Ken felt Sallorsen nudge him. They had come to the forward end of the
control compartment, and could go no farther. Before them was the
watertight door, in which was set a large pane of quarsteel. The
captain wanted him to look through.

Ken did so, knowing what to expect; but even so he was surprised by
the strangeness of the scene. In among the manifold devices of the
front compartment, its wheels and pipes and levers, glided slowly the
sleek, blubbery shapes of half a dozen sealmen. Back and forth they
swam, inspecting everything curiously, unhurried and unafraid; and as
Ken stared one of them came right up to the other side of the closed
watertight door, pressed close to the pane and regarded him with large
placid eyes.

Other sealmen entered through a jagged rip in the plates on the
starboard side of the bow. At this Sallorsen began to speak again in
the short, clipped sentences, punctuated by quick gasps for air.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Crashed, bow-on," he said. "Underwater ice. Outer and inner plates
crumpled like paper. Lost trim and hit bottom. Got this door closed,
but lost four men in bow compartment. Drowned. No chance. Sparks among
'em, at his radio. That's why we couldn't radio for help." He paused,
gasping shallowly.

"Could've got away if we'd left immediately. One flooded compartment
not enough to hold this ship down. But I didn't know. I sent two men
out in sea-suits--inspect damage. Those devils got them.

"The seal-things came in a swarm. God! Fast! We didn't realize. They
had ropes, and in seconds they'd lashed us down to the sea-floor.
Lashed us fast!" Again he paused and sucked for the poisoned air, and
Ken Torrance did not try to hurry him, but stood silent, looking
forward to the squashed bow, and out the sides to where he could see
the taut black lines of the seaweed-ropes.

"The two men put up fight. Had crowbars. Useless--but they killed one
of the devils. That did it. They were torn apart in front of us.
Ripped. Mangled. By spears the things carry. Dead like that."

"Yes," murmured Ken, "that would do it...."

"I quick tried to get away," gasped Sallorsen. "Full-speed--back and
forth. No good. Ropes held. Couldn't break. All our power couldn't! So
then--then I acted foolishly. Damn foolish. But we were all a little
crazy. A nightmare, you know. Couldn't believe our eyes--those seals
outside, mocking us. So I called for volunteers. Four men. Put 'em in
sea-suits, gave 'em shears and grappling prongs. They went out.

"They went out laughing--saying they'd soon have us free! Oh, God!" It
seemed he could not go on, but he forced the words out deliberately.
"Killed without a chance! Ripped apart like the others! No chance!
Suicide!"

Ken felt the agony in the man, and was silent for a while before
quietly asking:

"Did they kill any more of the sealmen?"

"One. Just one. That made two of them--six of us. What the hell are
the rest of them waiting for?" Sallorsen cried. "They killed eight in
all! To our two! That's enough for them, isn't it?"

"I'm afraid not," said Ken Torrance. "Well, what then?"

"Sat down and thought. Carefully. Hit on a plan. Took one of our two
torpoons. Lashed on it steel plates, ground to sharp cutting edges.
Spent days at it. Thought torpoon could go out and cut the ropes.
Haines volunteered and we shot him and torpoon out."

"They got the torpoon?" Ken asked.

Sallorsen's arm raised in a pointing gesture. "Look."

       *       *       *       *       *

Some fifty feet away from the _Peary_, on the side opposite to the one
Ken Torrance had approached, a dimly discernible object lay in the
mud. In miniature, it resembled the submarine: a cigar-shaped steel
shell, held down to the sea-bottom by ropes bound over it. Cutting
edges of steel had been fastened along its length.

"I see," said Ken slowly. "And its pilot?"

"Stayed in the torpoon thirty-six hours. Then went crazy. Put on
sea-suit and tried to get back here. Whisk--they got him. Killed and
mangled while we watched!"

"But didn't his torpoon have a nitro-shell gun? Couldn't he have
fought them off for a time?"

"Exploring submarine, this! No guns in torpoons like whalers. Gun
wouldn't help, anyway. These devils too fast. No use. No hope
anywhere...." Sallorsen sank back against the bulkhead, his lips
moving but no sound coming forth. Dully he stared ahead, through the
submarine, for a moment before uttering a cackling mockery of a laugh
and going on.

"Even after that, still hoped! Blew every tank on ship; blew out most of
her oil. Threw out everything not vital. Lightened her as much as could.
Machinery--detachable metal--fixtures--baggage--instruments--knives,
plates, cups--everything! She rose a couple of feet--no more! Put motors
at full speed--back and forth--again, again, again. Buoyancy--power--no
good. No damn good!

"And then we tried the last chance. Explosives. Had quite a store,
Nitromite, packed in cases; time-fuses to set it off. Had it for
blasting ice. I sent up a charge and blew hole in the ice overhead,
for our other torpoon.

"Nothing else left. Knew planes must be nearby, searching. Last
torpoon was to shoot up to the hole--pilot to climb on ice and stay
there to signal a plane."

"Did he get there?"

"Hell no!" Sallorsen cackled again. "It was roped like the other.
Pilot tried to get back, but they got him like first. There's the
torpoon--out ahead."

Ken could just make it out. It lay ahead, slightly to port, lashed
down like its fellow by seaweed-ropes. His eyes were held by it, even
when Sallorsen continued, in an almost hysterical voice:

"Since then--since then--you know. Week after week. Air getting worse.
Rectifiers running down. No night, no day. Just the lights, and those
damned devils outside. Wore sea-suits for a while; used twenty-nine of
their thirty hours air-units. Old Professor Halloway died, and another
man. Couldn't do anything for 'em. Just sit and watch. Head aching,
throat choking--God!...

"Some of the men went mad. Tried to break out. Had to show gun. Quick
death outside. Here, slow death, but always the chance that--Chance,
hell! There's no chance left! Just this poison that used to be air,
and those things outside, watching, watching, waiting--waiting for us
to leave--waiting to get us all! Waiting...."

"Something's up!" said Ken Torrance suddenly. "They've got tired of
waiting!"




CHAPTER V

_The Last Assault_


Sallorsen turned his head and followed the torpooner's intent, amazed
gaze.

Ken said:

"There's proof of their intelligence! I've been watching--didn't
realize at first. Look, here it comes!"

Several sealmen, while Sallorsen had been talking, had come dropping
down from the main mass of the horde, and had grouped around the
abandoned torpoon which lay some feet ahead of the submarine's bow.
Expertly they had loosened the seaweed-ropes which bound it to the
sea-floor, then slid back, watching alertly, as if expecting the
torpoon to speed away of its own accord. Its batteries, of course, had
worn out weeks before, so the steel shell did net budge. The sealmen
came down close to it again, and lifted it.

They lifted it easily with their prehensile flipper-arms, and with
maneuvering of delicate sureness guided it through the gash in the
_Peary's_ bow. Inside, they hesitated with it, midway between deck and
ceiling of the flooded compartment. They poised for perhaps a full
minute, judging the distance, while the two men stared; and then
quickly their powerful tail flippers lashed out and the torpoon jumped
ahead. It sped straight through the water, to crash its tough nose of
steel squarely into the quarsteel pane of the watertight door, then
rebounded, and fell to the deck.

"My God!" gasped Sallorsen. But Ken wasted no words then. He pressed
closer to the quarsteel and examined it minutely. The substance showed
no visible effect, but the action of the sealmen destroyed whatever
hope he had felt.

The sealmen had swerved aside at the last minute; and now, picking up
the torpoon again and guiding it back to the other end of the
compartment, they hurled it once more with a resounding crash into the
quarsteel pane.

"How long will it last under that?" Ken asked tersely.

Obviously, Sallorsen's wits were muddled at this turn. He remained
gaping at the creatures and at the torpoon, now turned against its
mother submarine. Ken repeated the question.

"How long? Who knows? It's as strong as steel, but--there's the
pressure--and those blows hit one spot. Not--long."

       *       *       *       *       *

Capping his words, there re-echoed again the loud crash of the
torpoon's on the quarsteel. The sealmen were working in quick routine
now; back and quickly forward, and then the crash and the
reverberation; and again and again....

