The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Overman
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Overman


Author: Upton Sinclair

Release date: March 29, 2022 [eBook #67732]

Language: English

Original publication: United States: Doubleday, Page & Company, 1906

Credits: Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OVERMAN ***




                              THE OVERMAN




BY THE SAME AUTHOR

                        The Industrial Republic
                               The Jungle
                               King Midas
                                Manassas
                              Prince Hagen
                     The Journal of Arthur Stirling

[Illustration: “‘I HAD STEPPED OUT UPON THE SUMMIT, AND STOOD TRANSFIXED
WITH THE GLORY OF AN ENDLESS VISION OF DAWN’”]




                              The Overman


                                   By
                             UPTON SINCLAIR

                          _WITH FRONTISPIECE_

[Illustration]

                                New York
                       Doubleday, Page & Company
                                  1907




                   COPYRIGHT, 1906, BY UPTON SINCLAIR

                          COPYRIGHT, 1907, BY
                       DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY
                       PUBLISHED, SEPTEMBER, 1907

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, INCLUDING THAT OF TRANSLATION INTO FOREIGN
LANGUAGES, INCLUDING THE SCANDINAVIAN




                              THE OVERMAN




                             _The Overman_


This is the story of Edward ——, as he told it to me only a few days
before he died; he told it as he lay half paralysed, and knowing that
the hand of death was upon him.


I am by profession a scientist. My story goes back some fifty years,
when I was a student. I had one brother, Daniel, five years younger than
myself, a musician of extraordinary promise. We lived abroad together
for a number of years, each pursuing his own work. About my brother,
suffice it to say that music to him was everything—love and friendship,
ambition and life. He was a man without a stain, whose lower nature had
been burned out by the flame of art. I think the one tie that bound him
to the world was myself.

When Daniel was about twenty-three years of age, his health weakened,
and a long sea voyage was decided upon. I could not go with him, so for
the first time we parted; and it was twenty years after that before I
ever heard of him again.

It was believed that the ship had been wrecked in the South Seas; and I
had given him up for dead many years, when it chanced that, as a man
advanced in life, I was travelling as a naturalist in Ceylon, and met an
old sailor who had been with my brother, and who told me a strange
story—how one boat containing five men, including Daniel, had outlived
the storm and landed upon an uninhabited island; how, after remaining
there for several months, they had made up their minds to risk a voyage
in their frail craft; and how my brother alone had refused, declaring
his intention to remain by himself, with his violin and the few effects
that he had saved.

How this affected me anyone can imagine. The tale was obviously a true
one, and I chanced to have means; and so, getting the best idea I could
of the island’s location, I purchased a yacht outright and prepared to
make a search.

The events immediately following bear only indirectly upon my story, and
so I pass over them swiftly. We had been at sea for some three weeks,
and were in the locality we sought, and watching day and night for some
sign of the island, when late one evening the native captain of the
vessel came to my cabin, trembling and pale with fright, to tell me that
the crew had mutinied and were about to murder me. I rushed to my chest
for my revolvers, only to find that every cartridge was gone; and the
other’s weapon proved to be in the same plight. In this desperate
situation the latter suggested what seemed to be the only possible
expedient—that we should make our escape from the vessel in the
darkness, and trust to gaining the land. While he crept out to provision
and lower a boat, I barricaded the cabin-door and waited; and upon
hearing the whistle agreed on, I ran to a port-hole, and seeing the
boat, slid into it. An instant later the rope was cut, and I got one
glance at the leering countenance of my betrayer, before the ship sped
on and all was darkness. I was alone!


The emotions of that night I do not like to recall. Life was still dear
to me. It was only when morning came that I lifted my head again and
recovered my self-possession.

There was no land in sight—I was tossing upon a waste of water, and
already beginning to feel the first cravings of the fearful thirst that
I knew must come. But by a strange instinct I still clung to my life;
and soon a storm arose, and as the waves began to speed my frail boat
along, it rose upon one of them, and I suddenly caught sight of a faint
streak of land. I seized the oars and set to work to race for my life. I
was not used to the effort, and it took all my strength to keep the
craft headed aright, while the sea bore it on to its goal; I fought
desperately through the whole day, coming nearer and nearer to my hope,
but expecting every instant to be my last, and almost fainting with
exhaustion. Finally I came to the very edge of the breakers—and then, in
spite of all that I could do, the boat was seized by a wave and whirled
around.

I saw before me a long line of bright green forest; and, standing upon
the beach in front of me, a single figure—a man—motionless and watching.
That moment a breaker smote my little craft, and I was flung into the
boiling sea.

I did not know how to swim. I clutched at the boat and missed it, and
after that I recall only an instant or two of frantic struggling and
choking. When next I opened my eyes, I lay upon the shore, with a man
bending over me; and upon my dazed faculties was borne in the startling
truth that the man was my brother.


It would have been long before I recognised him but that he was calling
me by name. A creature more changed no man could imagine. Gaunt,
hollow-eyed, and wild in appearance, he was scarcely the shadow of his
former self; he was clad in a rough garment of fur, barefooted and
barearmed, and with long, tangled hair. But what most struck me—what
struck me the instant I opened my eyes, and what never ceased to strike
me after that—was the strange, haunted look of his whole countenance;
his eyes, swift and restless, shone from beneath the shadow of his brows
like those of some forest animal.

For the first few dazed minutes I thought of what I had read of men who
had gone mad, or had reverted to the beast, under such circumstances as
these. Yet nothing could exceed the tenderness of my brother’s voice and
manner to me; he bent over me with a gourd full of milk, which he helped
me to drink, and he dried my face and brushed back the hair from my
forehead, whispering to me as one might to a sick child.

I can remember the very words of our conversation at that strange
moment, so keenly did every circumstance impress me. I answered him
faintly when he asked me how I did, and he pressed my hand. “You were
seeking for me, brother?” he asked.

“I was,” I said.

“I sometimes thought that you might,” he exclaimed. “Alas! Alas!”

I had been overwhelmed with joy as the truth dawned upon me—the truth
that I had found him. I had forgotten our mutual plight. “Never mind,” I
whispered. “We may get away somehow; and at least we can be together.”

He answered nothing, but helped me lift my head.

“How came you alone in that boat?” he asked.

“It is a long story,” I replied, shuddering as I gazed at the waves that
were thundering on the beach before us. “I will tell it later.”

“You have been long upon the water?”

“Only since last night,” I said; and then gazing about me suddenly, I
cried: “And you—you have been here all these years!”

“All these years,” he answered.

“And alone?”

“Alone.”

I trembled as I gazed into his face; his eyes seemed fairly to burn.

“How have you borne it?” I cried. “What have you done?”

His answer made me start. “I have done very well,” he said; “I have not
been unhappy.”

The words seemed strange to me—but his voice was stranger yet. Surely
there were signs enough of unhappiness upon his face!

He seemed to read my thoughts. “Do not worry,” he went on, pressing his
hand in mine; “I will tell you all about it later.”

But my mind could not be turned away so easily. When I felt stronger and
sat up, I came back to the question, gazing at his haggard face and the
strange costume he wore.

“You can make no better clothing?” I cried; “and for food—what do you
do?”

“I have all the food that I can eat,” was the response, “and everything
else that I need. You shall see.”

“But have you seen _no_ one?” I persisted—“no ships, in all this time?”

“I have not wished to see any,” he said; and then he smiled gently as he
saw my stare of amazement. “I have not wished for anything,” he said
gently; “I have a home, as you shall see, and I have never needed
company. Have you forgotten how it used to be, dear brother?”

It took me a long time to understand his words. I was still gazing at
him helplessly. “And you mean,” I cried—“you mean that you still—you
still live in your music?”

“Yes,” he said, “I mean that.”

I was sitting upright and gripping his arm tightly. “And for twenty
years!” I gasped.

“Twenty thousand years would be all too little for music,” was the
reply.

I sank back, and he wrapped his arms about me. “Dear brother,” he said,
smiling, “let us not go into that just now. Wait until to-morrow, at the
least. Perhaps I can help you now, and we can walk.”

We had not far to go, and with his help I managed the task. Back from
the shore rose a high cliff, and a cavern in this was evidently his
home. At one side there was a pen, in which were three or four captive
goats; and upon the grassy lawn in front was a rough seat. With the
exception of a fireplace, and a path he had cut through the thicket,
there were no other signs that the place was inhabited.

I sank down upon the grass, and he brought me fresh water and fruits,
and cooked rice, which I ate hungrily. Then, when I was stronger, I got
up and began to examine his home.

The cave was the size of a large room; it was dry, but bare of all
furniture except a table and a roughly made chair and bed. My brother’s
possessions consisted mainly of a few objects (notably some tools) which
he and the sailors had been able to recover from the wreck of the ship.
There were a few skins which served him as bags in which to keep his
provisions; his bowls and dishes were gourds and the shells of turtles.
He was without artificial light, and he had only a few quires of
writing-paper from the ship-captain’s portfolio. For the rest, a violin
without strings, and a bow without hairs, made up a list of the
possessions so far as I could make them out. And it was upon the
strength of these that he had said to me: “I have everything that I
need!”

With rest and food my strength returned, and before long my mind was
altogether occupied with my brother.

First of all, of course, my thought was of his home—of his surroundings
and his ways. I rummaged about his cavern, wondering at his
makeshifts—or rather, at his lack of them.

“You have no lamp?” I cried. “But, Daniel, the wax-plant grows in this
climate. Or you might use tallow or oil.”

“Dear brother,” he answered, “you forget that I have no books to read.
And the few things that need light—cannot I just as well do them by
day?”

“But, then, the long nights—you sleep?”

“No,” said he gently, “I do not sleep”; and later, with his strange
smile, he added: “I live.”

“You live!” I echoed in perplexity; and then I stopped, catching the
quiet, steady gaze of his eyes.

“Just so,” he said, “I live. I had never lived before.”

Most of all, I think, I was perplexed at the sight of his violin. From
what I had seen of his youthful life, I could have imagined him spending
all day and all night with that; but here it hung, useless as a stick of
wood.

“You could have made strings for it,” I said. “I can make them for you.”

“But they would be of no use to me,” he answered.

“And all your music—you have given it up?”

“The music I have to do with,” he said, “has long ceased to be music
that anyone could play.”

“But, Daniel!” I protested.

“Listen to me,” he said. “Have you never read that Beethoven never heard
some of his greatest symphonies? Do you not understand how a musician
can comprehend music from a score? And from that, how he can create it
in his own mind and enjoy it, without ever writing it down or hearing
it?”

“Then,” I said, almost speechless with wonder; “then you compose music
in your mind?”

“No,” he said. “I _live_ music in my soul.”

These things were on the day of my rescue, after I had recovered from my
exhaustion. The words which he spoke I no more comprehended than if I
had been a child; but the strangeness of the thing haunted my soul, and
my questioning and arguing never ceased. All of this he bore with a
gentle patience.

I had my youthful recollections of Robinson Crusoe; and as a man of
science, I could naturally not spend two minutes conversing with Daniel
and examining his affairs without thinking some new device by which he
could have made his lot more tolerable. I could as yet hardly realise
that it was to be my own fate to live upon the deserted island for ever;
all my thoughts were of what I should have done had I been in his place.
He had no weapons, no traps, no gardens, no house—and so on. “But,
Edward,” he would say again and again, “do you not understand? Once
more—I have no _time_ for such things.”

“Time! _Time!_” I would cry. “But what _else_ have you? What have you to
_do?_”

“I have my life to live,” was the invariable response; “I have no time
for anything else.”

We were sitting that afternoon beneath the shade of a great forest-tree
before the cavern. Suddenly, seeing again the dazed look upon my face,
he put his arm about me.

“Listen to me, dear brother,” he said, smiling. “You remember Diogenes,
who lived in a tub? That was in order that he might have to call no man
master, and no thing—least of all his own body. And can you not see that
a man’s own soul is his soul just the same, whether he be on a desert
island or in the midst of a city of millions? And that mind, emotion,
will—he has the life of his soul to live?”

I sat surprised into silence; then suddenly I felt Daniel’s arm tighten
about me. “Ah, my dear brother,” he said, his voice lowering, “it will
be so hard! Do you think I have not realised it—how hard, _hard_ it will
be?”

“What will be hard?” I asked.

“Your life—everything you have to face,” he answered. “How can you not
see it—do you not see that _you_ have to live upon this island, too?”

“I have not thought of it much,” I said. “I have been thinking of you.”

“I know it,” he replied; “but I do not see how you are to bear it. I saw
it all while I watched you sweep in with the boat—I saw all the pain and
all the sorrow, and it was long before I made up my mind that it was not
best to let you die.” I started, but he held me tight.

“Yes,” he said, “and I fear that I chose wrongly. Is it not strange that
a man who has seen what I have seen should still be bound by such
chains—that what I knew would be best, I could not do, simply because
you were my brother?”

He must have felt my heart beating faster. “Listen to me,” he went on
quickly, but still with his frightful quietness. “Listen to me while I
try to tell you—what I can hardly bear to tell you. All the tragedy of
being is summed up in such a situation as this of ours; I am as helpless
before it as you are—both of us are as helpless as children.”

I gazed at him again, and suddenly he caught me with the wild look of
his eyes. He had no need to hold me with his hand.

“Brother,” he said, “you must think this out for yourself, as you can: I
cannot explain it to you—cannot explain anything about it. Suffice it to
say that for twenty years I have lived here, and that I have fought a
fight which no man has ever fought before, and seen what I believe no
man has ever seen. Knowing you as I do, I know that you can by no
possibility ever follow me. It is as if I had found the fourth dimension
of space; it is as if I dwelt in a house through the walls of which you
walked without seeing them. How you are to bear your life here, my dear,
dear brother, I do not know; but the truth is merciless, and you must
face it—you will have to live on this island all your days, I am sure;
and you will have to live here _alone_!”

A sudden shudder passed through me. “Daniel!” I gasped; it seemed to me
that his eyes were on fire. “You mean, I suppose, that you are going
away to some other part of the place—to another island?”

“Whether I go to another place or not, what matters that? No, I shall
not, I think; and rest assured that, whatever I do, I love you, my heart
yearns for you, and all my tenderness and love are yours; but also that
though you were with me, and held me in your arms four-and-twenty hours
a day—yet all the time you would be alone.”

I could find no word to say—I could scarcely think.

“The pain of it,” he went on, still quietly, still tenderly, “is that I
cannot explain it to anyone, that I cannot explain it to myself; that
there are no words for it, nothing but the thing. The only explanation I
can give is that I am become a madman, and that you must accept the
fact. For the thing I do I can no more help doing than I could help the
beating of my heart. All the world of love that I might bear to you, or
to any other human soul, could no more enable me to stop than it would
enable the grass to stop growing. Again you must accept the fact—you
must learn to think of me as a man who is in the grasp of a fiend.”

There was a pause. Not once had I taken my eyes from my brother’s, and I
sat with my heart throbbing wildly; the strangeness of the whole thing
was too much for me—at times I was certain that I was indeed listening
to a maniac.

When my brother began speaking again, I was at first hardly conscious of
it. “Edward,” he said, “I have thought about this—that perhaps my
presence would be painful to you. If so, let me go away. Take what tools
I have here, and make this place your home—you have knowledge at your
command, you can plant and hunt and study, and do what you will. As for
me, such things make no difference; I could soon make myself comfortable
again, and perhaps——”

“Say no more about it,” I interrupted quickly; “if anyone must go, let
it be me, for I shall have need of occupation.”

For long hours after that strange experience I was pacing up and down
the storm-swept beach of the island. What I had heard had disturbed me
more than anything before in my life; the whole surroundings contributed
to the effect—the perils I had passed through, the terrible future which
stretched before me, the loss of my brother, and the finding of this
strange madman in his place. But I was by nature a practical person,
scientific and precise in my mode of thought; I did my best to convince
myself that solitude and suffering had unhinged my brother’s mind. There
is no use telling a scientist that he cannot understand a certain
matter, and expecting him to let it rest; my mind was soon made up that
I would study this malady, and perhaps cure it. My interest in the
strange problem did more than anything else to keep me from realising to
the full extent the discomfort I must needs face in the future.

When hunger brought my thoughts back to myself, I returned to the cave,
where I found my brother pacing backward and forward upon a path which
he had worn deep in the ground in front of his home; his head was sunk
forward, his eyes on the ground, and he was evidently lost in deep
thought. I spoke to him once, but he did not hear me; I walked by him
and entered the cavern.

I now set to work to make a thorough examination of his belongings,
musing that perhaps the best way to get to the bottom of his strange
trouble would be to provide him with some of the ordinary amenities of
life. I found that the tools were not too rusty to be of service, and
being a person with talent for doing things, I was soon interested in
planning how I could make a habitable place out of the cave. In the
latitude I knew that a door and a fireplace would never be an absolute
necessity; but I pleased myself thinking that they might not be useless
when the storms blew in. Also, being blessed with much knowledge of the
natural world, I flattered myself that before many days would have
passed I should have added considerably to the comforts of the house.

I gave the balance of the day to a preliminary ransacking of the island.
A scientist has an inexhaustible mine of interest in such an
environment, and in the plans which I formed for work I forgot
everything else for the time.

And so towards sundown I returned to the cabin. My brother was still
pacing to and fro, exactly as I had left him. Taught by previous
experience, I entered the cabin without addressing him, and set about
preparing a meal. I had not gone very far before I heard his step behind
me.

“Edward,” he said.

“What is it?” I asked, turning.

“I wished merely to tell you—that you will not see me for a day or two.
I wish you not to worry about me.”

I gazed at him in perplexity that was too great to permit of my framing
a question. His haggard glance met mine again, and again he put his hand
upon my shoulder with a gesture of affection; then he turned and went
slowly away.

The incident diminished my appetite, for I had expected to interest him
in my banquet. I sat for hours afterwards, gazing out of the cavern
entrance at the moonlighted grove, silent and desolate beyond any
telling. I think I never felt more alone than just then.

The problem was my only company; I had no idea where Daniel had gone;
but after a feverish sleep I was up again at dawn, my mind fully made up
for a search. I fear I drag out my story—it was nearly sundown when at
last my efforts were rewarded. I was returning home in despair and
misery, when, suddenly, in the back of the same cliffs in which was our
home, I saw another opening, and with a gleam of hope I hurried towards
it and peered in. It was too dark to see, but I entered and stepped to
one side in the darkness; and then, as my eyes adjusted themselves to
the gloom, I saw my brother.

I was unperceived, and I went forward until I could see him plainly. He
sat upon a block of stone, the edge of which his hands gripped tensely;
with his face slightly raised, he was staring before him into space. I
would describe, if I could, the impression which his whole appearance
gave me; it was of a man undergoing some fearful strain. The knotted
muscles stood out upon his arms; his nostrils were distended, his breath
coming fast, and I could see the veins throbbing in his forehead. I
stood for I know not how long, with my heart beating madly, a strange,
indescribable _fear_ in possession of me. Divining the truth
instinctively, I moved in front of him and gazed into his eyes; he
neither saw me nor heard me, nor gave any sign that he was conscious of
my presence. Then suddenly, unable to bear the strain any longer, I
clutched him in my arms, crying wildly: “Daniel! Daniel!”

To my horror, he gave no signs. Even then I clung to him, I shook him; I
could feel the quivering of his tense arms. At last, completely
overcome, I turned and staggered from the place.

All that night I lay stretched out upon the bed, sleepless. I had
studied medicine, but nothing that I had ever heard of bore any
resemblance to this. Perhaps two hours after sunrise, as I was sitting
with my eyes fixed in the direction of the other cavern, all at once I
saw my brother appear.

I sprang up in sheer fright; he was pale beyond imagination. He paid no
attention to me, but went past me and entered the cave. He groped his
way to his larder and, sinking down upon the ground, took some of the
food and ate it slowly. There was a bowl of milk which I had put there,
and which he drank. Then he lay down, resting his head upon his arm, and
fell fast asleep.

I followed him in silence when he rose, his weakness apparently gone. He
went to the spring which was near the cavern, and bathed his face and
arms in the stream below it. After that he came towards me and, sitting
down beside me, put his arm around me.

“Dear brother,” he said, “it was very good of you; but please do not do
what you did again.”

“You knew that I was there?” I cried.

“Yes,” he said, “I knew it.”

“And why did you not answer me?”

“I could not answer you, brother?” And then with a sudden gesture he
checked me. “I could not even tell you _why_,” he said. “It must suffice
you, Edward, to know that this must be, and that you cannot help it.”

“But it will kill me!” I cried.

“Perhaps,” he said very quietly, “or perhaps it will kill me first. I
cannot tell.”

We stood for some minutes without speaking. “Daniel,” I ventured at
last, “I had hoped that in the external ways I might assist you—your
food, perhaps——”

“I could not let you serve me,” he answered; “I have no way to serve you
in return. And, besides that, I have learned to do cheerfully what
little physical toil I must. The island is covered with food, you know.”

“But if you should be sick?” I cried.

“If I should be sick,” he said, “I should either get well again, or else
die.”

“Then you do not feel pain?”

“To learn to bear pain has been one of my tasks,” was the response. “I
should think,” he continued, changing the subject abruptly, “that if you
had studied all your life as you did when we lived together, by this
time you would not fear solitude—that you would find in this new world
enough to fill all your time.”

“I might—perhaps I shall,” I said; “but, Daniel, you have been here
twenty years, and never seen a ship! So how could I know that the result
of any studies of mine would ever be made known to the world? I have not
even any paper to write upon.”

The other sat gazing ahead of him at the moonlit water through the
trees; I saw the strange smile upon the lips again.

“All that sorrow,” he said—“I fought with it once myself, and how I wish
that I could help you to fight with it! For a year or so I also waited
for a ship, and wrote down the best of my music, and poured out the
tears of my soul. But, Edward, I no longer write my music, and I no
longer fear lest my work be not made known to the world.”

His voice had sunk low. Over the tree-tops a silver moon was gleaming,
and his eyes were fixed upon it. “On that huge ball of iron and rock,”
said he, “there was once power and life and beauty; and now it rolls
there through the years and the ages, cold and dead and still. And some
day this planet, too, will roll through the years and the ages; and no
eye will behold it, and no mind will be aware of it; and the voices of
men will be hushed upon it, and the monuments of men will be dust upon
it; and Edward, what then of my music, what then of your science and
your books?”

I answered nothing.

“Perhaps in all the ages that have gone over this island,” he continued,
“no human foot ever trod upon it before.”

And so my brother passed on, pressing his hand upon my shoulder; and
through the watches of the night I saw him pacing backward and forward,
backward and forward, upon the long, white stretch of sand.

A month must have passed after that—I took little heed of the time. I
toiled at the cave, I played hunter and naturalist. I was busy with my
hands, but very seldom was I happy or at peace. For day after day that
silent figure roamed here and there before my eyes, and hour after hour
those strange, silent vigils to the black cavern continued. I grew more
and more restless and oppressed, until at last, one night, at the end of
a long and exhausting vigil, my impatience reached its climax.

I remember how I sat by his side and caught his hand, like a
supplicating child. “Daniel,” I asked, “has it never occurred to you
that you are unkind to me?”

“Unkind?” he asked gently.

“Unkind,” I said, “I have waited—how long have I waited. It seemed to me
that it could not last for ever—that you would not continue to treat me
always as if I were a child.”

“Edward,” he said, “I know what you are going to say. I wish that you
would spare me.”

“I cannot spare you!” I cried with sudden vehemence. “I tell you I
cannot bear it—I tell you I shall go mad! This loneliness and this
haunting perplexity—I swear to you that I cannot endure it any longer!”

My brother sat gazing before him. After a moment I went on, more
quietly, pleading with him. “Daniel,” I said, “you cannot ever persuade
me that you must needs treat me as you have treated me since I came to
this place. I came here to seek for you—for that purpose alone—and with
love in my heart. And you keep me from you, you treat me as if I were
not a human being!”

“Stop, Edward!” cried my brother imploringly; “do not say such things as
that! Ah! what can I tell you? How can I say it to you?—it is not enough
that you should be a human being.”

“Not enough!” I echoed.

“Ah! do you suppose—can you suppose—that if this thing of which we speak
were mine to give—if by losing it myself I could give it to you—can you
suppose I would not do it, and do it with joy? All that love could make
possible I would do—how much I would do I cannot tell you. But this that
you ask of me—this I _cannot_ do!”

“You mean”—I clung to the argument with my scientific instinct—“you mean
that there is in your own life, in your own mind, certain things which
could be conveyed to another’s?”

“I do,” he said.

“But the use of words——” I began.

“No words could have any relation to this,” he said.

“But ideas, Daniel!” I protested. “There may be ideas in the mind for
which we can find no words, but surely we can approximate them, we can
foreshadow them.”

“There are some things in my mind that are not ideas,” was the quick
reply.

“I do not understand that,” I exclaimed.

“I know it,” said my brother; “that is the point.”

“But,” I cried in vexation, “but what could such things be? How can one
think——”

“‘In that high hour thought was not,’” my brother quoted.
